[Music]
a religious conclave held between
december 17 and 19 2021 in haridwar
witnessed inflammatory and provocative
speeches by proponents of hindutva many
of them leaders of religious
organizations
reports say many of the speakers called
for organized violence against muslims
and hinted at a myanmar-type cleansing
campaign
there was a threat that if the
government resisted the formation of a
hindu rashtra there will be an 1857 like
revolt against the state
political parties and concerned citizens
have termed these as hate speech they
have demanded legal action against those
involved in the propagation of hate and
violence
[Music]
there is no specific legal definition of
hate speech
provisions in law criminalize speeches
writings actions signs and
representations that instigate violence
and spread disharmony between
communities and groups
these are understood to refer to hate
speech
the law commission of india in its 267th
report says
hate speech generally is an incitement
to hatred primarily against a group of
persons defined in terms of race
ethnicity gender sexual orientation
religious belief and the like
thus hate speech is any word written or
spoken signs visible representations
within the hearing or sight of a person
with the intention to cause fear or
alarm or incitement to violence in
general hate speech is considered a
limitation on free speech that seeks to
prevent or bar speech that exposes a
person or a group or section of society
to hate violence ridicule or indignity
[Music]
sections 153 a and 505 of the indian
penal code are generally taken to be the
main penal provisions that seek to
punish hate speech and which deal with
inflammatory speeches and expressions
under section 153a
promotion of enmity between different
groups on grounds of religion race place
of birth residence language etc and
doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of
harmony is an offense punishable with
three years is imprisonment
it attracts a five-year term if
committed in a place of worship or an
assembly engaged in religious worship or
religious ceremonies section 505 of ipc
makes it an offense to make statements
conducing to public mischief
the statement publication report or
rumor that is penalized under section
505 subsection 1 should be one that
promotes mutiny by the armed forces or
causes such fear or alarm that people
are induced to commit an offence against
the state or public tranquility
or is intended to incite or incites any
class or community to commit an offence
against another class or community this
attracts a jail term of up to three
years
under 505 subsection 2 it is an offence
to make statements creating or promoting
enmity hatred or ill will between
classes
under subsection 3 the same offense will
attract up to a five-year jail term if
it takes place in a place of worship or
in any assembly engaged in religious
worship or religious ceremonies
[Music]
the law commission has proposed that
separate offenses be added to the ipc to
criminalize hate speech quite
specifically instead of being subsumed
in the existing sections concerning
inflammatory acts and speeches
[Music]